.\" Originaly written by M. E. Lesk
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.
.
.
.TH REFER‐FORMAT 7 '2017‐12‐06'
.
.
.
.SH REFER FILE
.PP
A reference file is a set of bibliographic references usable
with \fIrefer\fR. It can be indexed using the
softwares \fIinv\fR and \fImkey\fR for fast searching.
.PP
The strings defined by \fIrefer\fR are taken directly from
the files of references, which are in the following format.
The references should be separated by blank lines. Each
reference is a sequence of lines beginning with \fB%\fR and
followed by a key‐letter. The remainder of that line, and
successive lines until the next line beginning with \fB%\fR,
contain the information specified by the key‐letter. In
general, \fIrefer\fR does not interpret the information, but
merely presents it to the macro package for final
formatting. A user with a separate macro package, for
example, can add new key‐letters or use the existing ones
for other purposes without bothering \fIrefer\fR.
.PP
The meaning of the key‐letters given below, in particular,
is that assigned by the –ms macros. Not all information,
obviously, is used with each citation. For example, if a
document is both an internal memorandum and a journal
article, the macros ignore the memorandum version and cite
only the journal article. Some kinds of information are not
used at all in printing the reference; if a user does not
like finding references by specifying title or author
keywords, and prefers to add specific keywords to the
citation, a field is available which is searched but not
printed (K).
.PP
The key letters currently recognized by \fIrefer\fR and –ms,
with the kind of information implied, are:
.TP
\&\fBA\fR
Author’s name
.TP
\&\fBB\fR
Title of book containing item
.TP
\&\fBC\fR
City of publication
.TP
\&\fBD\fR
Date
.TP
\&\fBE\fR
Editor of book containing item
.TP
\&\fBG\fR
Government (NTIS) ordering number
.TP
\&\fBI\fR
Issuer (publisher)
.TP
\&\fBJ\fR
Journal name
.TP
\&\fBK\fR
Keys (for searching)
.TP
\&\fBL\fR
Label
.TP
\&\fBM\fR
Memorandum label
.TP
\&\fBN\fR
Issue number
.TP
\&\fBO\fR
Other information
.TP
\&\fBP\fR
Page(s) of article
.TP
\&\fBR\fR
Technical report reference
.TP
\&\fBT\fR
Title
.TP
\&\fBV\fR
Volume number
.TP
\&\fBX\fR
or
.TP
\&\fBY\fR
or
.TP
\&\fBZ\fR
Information not used by refer
.
.
.
.SH REFER OUTPUT
.PP
The output of \fIrefer\fR is a stream of string definitions,
one for each of the fields of each reference, as shown
below.
.PP
.EX
\fB.\fR\fB]‐\fR
\fB.\fR\fBds\fR \fB[A\fR \fIauthors’ names ...\fR
\fB.\fR\fBds\fR \fB[T\fR \fItitle ...\fR
\fB.\fR\fBds\fR \fB[J\fR \fIjournal ...\fR
\fB.\fR\fB..\fR
\fB.\fR\fB][\fR type‐number
.EE
.PP
The \fIrefer\fR program, in general, does not concern itself
with the significance of the strings. The different fields
are treated identically by refer , except that the \fBX\fR,
\fBY\fR and \fBZ\fR fields are ignored (see the \fB‐i\fR
option of \fImkey\fR) in indexing and searching. All
\fIrefer\fR does is select the appropriate citation, based
on the keys. The macro package must arrange the strings so
as to produce an appropriately formatted citation. In this
process, it uses the convention that the ’\fBT\fR’ field is
the title, the ’\fBJ\fR’ field the journal, and so forth.
The refer program does arrange the citation to simplify the
macro package’s job, however. The special macro \fB.]‐\fR
precedes the string definitions and the special macro
\fB.][\fR follows. These are changed from the input
\fB.[\fR and \fB.]\fR so that running the same file
through refer again is harmless.
.PP
The \fB.]–\fR macro can be used by the macro package to
initialize. The \fB.][\fR macro, which should be used to
print the reference, is given an argument type‐number to
indicate the kind of reference, as follows:

.TP
\&\fB1\fR
Journal article
.TP
\&\fB2\fR
Book
.TP
\&\fB3\fR
Article within book
.TP
\&\fB4\fR
Technical report
.TP
\&\fB5\fR
Bell Labs technical memorandum
.TP
\&\fB0\fR
Other
.PP
The type is determined by the presence or absence of
particular fields in the citation (a journal article must
have a ’\fBJ\fR’ field, a book must have an ’\fBI\fR’ field, and so
forth). To a small extent, this violates the above rule that
\fIrefer\fR does not concern itself with the contents of the
citation; however, the classification of the citation in
\fItroff\fR macros would require a relatively expensive and
obscure program. Any macro writer may, of course, preserve
consistency by ignoring the argument to the .] [ macro. The
reference is flagged in the text with the sequence
.PP
.EX
\fB\Ee*(\fR\fI[.\fRnumber\fB\Ee*(\fR\fI.]\fR
.EE
.PP
where number is the footnote number. The strings \fB[.\fR
and \fB.]\fR should be used by the macro package to format
the reference flag in the text. These strings can be
replaced for a particular footnote. The footnote number (or
other signal) is available to the reference macro
\fB.][\fR as the string register \fB[F\fR. To simplify
dealing with a text reference that occurs at the end of a
sentence, refer treats a reference which follows a period in
a special way. The period is removed, and the reference is
preceded by a call for the string \fB<.\fR and followed by a
call for the string \fB>.\fR For example, if a reference
follows ’\fIend.\fR’ it will appear as
.PP
.EX
end\fB\Ee*(\fR\fI<.\fR\fB\Ee*(\fR\fI[.\fRnumber\fB\Ee*(\fR\fI.]\fR\fB\Ee*(\fR\fI>.\fR
.EE
.PP
where number is the footnote number. The macro package
should turn either the string \fB>.\fR or \fB<.\fR into a
period and delete the other one. This permits the output to
have either the form ’\fIend[31].\fR’ or ’\fIend.31\fR’ as
the macro package wishes. Note that in one case the period
precedes the number and in the other it follows the number.
.PP
In some cases users wish to suspend the searching, and
merely use the reference macro formatting. That is, the
user doesn’t want to provide a search key between .[ and . ]
brackets, but merely the reference lines for the appropriate
document. Alternatively, the user can wish to add a few
fields to those in the reference as in the standard file, or
override some fields. Altering or replacing fields, or
supplying whole references, is easily done by inserting
lines beginning with \fB%\fR; any such line is taken as
direct input to the reference processor rather than keys to
be searched. Thus
.PP
.EX
\fB.\fR\fB[\fR
key1 key2 key3 ...
%Q New format item
%R Override report name
\fB.\fR\fB]\fR
.EE
.PP
makes the indicates changes to the result of searching for
the keys. All of the search keys must be given before the
first \fB%\fR line. If no search keys are provided, an
entire citation can be provided in‐line in the text. For
example, if the eqn paper citation were to be inserted in
this way, rather than by searching for it in the data base,
the input would read
.PP
.EX
\fB.\fR\fB[\fR
%A B. W. Kernighan
%A L. L. Cherry
%T A System for Typesetting Mathematics
%J Comm. ACM
%V 18
%N 3
%P 151‐157
%D March 1975
\fB.\fR\fB]\fR
.EE
.PP
This would produce a citation of the same appearance as that
resulting from the file search. As shown, fields are
normally turned into troff strings. Sometimes users would
rather have them defined as macros, so that other troff
commands can be placed into the data. When this is
necessary, simply double the control character % in the
data. Thus the input
.PP
.EX
\fB.\fR\fB[\fR
%V 23
%%M
Bell Laboratories,
Murray Hill, N.J. 07974
\fB.\fR\fB]\fR
.EE
.PP
is processed by refer into
.PP
.EX
\fB.\fR\fBds\fR \fB[V\fR \fI23\fR
\fB.\fR\fBde\fR \fB[M\fR
Bell Laboratories,
Murray Hill, N.J. 07974
\fB.\fR\fB.\fR
.EE
.PP
The information after \fB%%M\fR is defined as a macro to be
invoked by \fB.[M\fR while the information after \fB%V\fR
is turned into a string to be invoked by \fB\Ee*([V\fR. At
present ‐ms expects all information as strings.
.
.
.
.SH LICENSE
.PP
The text of this manual page comes from \fISome application
of Inverted Indexes in the UNIX System\fR by M. E. Lesk,
which is distributed under the
\&original BSD <../share/bsd4.tr>
license.
.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\&refer(1) <refer.tr>,
\&sortbib(1) <sortbib.tr>,
\&mkey(1) <mkey.tr>,
\&inv(1) <inv.tr>,
\&hunt(1) <hunt.tr>,
and \fISome application of Inverted Indexes in the UNIX
System\fR by M. E. Lesk.
.
.
.
.SH BUGS & HELP
.PP
Please, send questions, bugs and patches at help at utroff dot org.
.
.
.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
M. E. Lesk. Modified by Pierre‐Jean Fichet.
